Master ICT4D

•Consider the following POV. 
•Identify the actor, the need, and the insight. 
•Discuss: What findings are baked into the POV?  What does the POV tell us about what designers may have discovered in their research? 
•Discuss: What does this POV tell us about the frame?  What other frames are possible?

A harried mother of three, rushing through the airport only to wait hours at the gate, needs to entertain her playful children because “annoying little brats” only irritate already frustrated fellow passengers. 

EXERCISE 2

 

1.Consider the following POV. 
2.Use the heuristics to craft HMW questions.  Try a few different approaches.  Write these down! You’ll need them for the next exercise. 
3.Discuss: What does adopting different approaches accomplishes?  More broadly, what good are How Might We questions? 
4.Reflect: Do some approaches come more naturally to you than others? 

Amp up the good: HMW use the kids’ energy to entertain fellow passenger? 
Remove the bad: HMW separate the kids from fellow passengers? 
Explore the opposite: HMW make the wait the most exciting part of the trip? 
Question an assumption: HMW entirely remove the wait time at the airport? 
Go after adjectives: HMW we make the rush refreshing instead of harrying? 
ID unexpected resources: HMW leverage free time of fellow passengers to share the load? 
Create an analogy from need or context: HMW make the airport like a spa? Like a playground? 
Play POV against the challenge: HMW make the airport a place that kids want to go? 
Change a status quo: HMW make playful, loud kids less annoying? Break POV into pieces: HMW entertain kids? HMW slow a mom down? HMW mollify delayed passengers

"A toddler’s parents, trying to avoid potty training accidents that are inconvenient for the parents and discouraging to the toddler, need to help their child be more patient on the potty because accidents commonly occur after the toddler quickly bores and leaves the potty too soon."




1.Read part 1 and part 6: The life cycle of creative ideas: Towards a dual-process theory of ideation – ScienceDirect
2.Discuss: What are the implications for ideation?



1.Choose one of the HMW questions you developed in the last exercise. 
2.With the principles in mind, brainwrite! 
3.When you’ve completed your brainwriting and share out, choose another HMW.  Instead of brainstorming, try sketching your ideas. 
4.Discuss: What differences do you observe between the two approaches? 
5.Reflect: When do you ideate in your work?  Do you adhere to the principles? 
1.Defer judgment. You never know where a good idea is going to come from.
2.Encourage wild ideas. Wild ideas can often give rise to creative leaps. In thinking about ideas that are wacky or out there we tend to think about what we really want without the constraints of technology or materials.
3.Go for quantity. Aim for as many new ideas as possible. Crank the ideas out quickly.
4.Record everything! Anything that pops into your head, write it down. One idea per sticky note.
5.Build on ideas. Employ layering strategies – different methods, different inputs, different rounds, different provocations – to turn one idea into a network of ideas.
6.Account for difference. Folks learn and think at different speeds, in different ways; everyone has different levels of comfort and confidence. Use multiple approaches.


7 - ideas

make it one quest of a bigger game 
make it a reading moment (maybe an adventure book!)
make it a co-design moment (tell a story)
make it a puppy moment (use a puppy and say he has to learn as well)



